Update readme (#58)
orcestra-campaign/flight_segmentation: README.md

## Structure of yaml-files
Every yaml-file begins with a header consisting of the flight's `nickname` (taken [flight reports](https://github.com/orcestra-campaign/book/tree/main/orcestra_book/reports) or adopted freely where necessary), `mission` (ORCESTRA), `platform` (HALO, ATR, METEOR,..), `flight_id` (e.g. HALO-20240813a), and `segments` (which lists all identified flight segments).

The general structure of a segment within the yaml files looks as follows:

> - `kinds`: Can be thought of as tags which label coherent characteristics of the flight segment. See a list of all tags currently in use below.
> - `name`: Short (1 - 3 words) qualitative description of the segment, does not have to be unique
> - `segment_id`: unique identifier of the segment, constructed as the combination of the `flight_id` and the last four digits of a hash computed from the start and end time of the segment
> - `start`: start time of the segment in format `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS`, e.g. 2024-08-13 14:56:37. 
> - `end`: end time of the segment in same format as start time. 
> - `irregularities`: lists irregularities such as deviations from envisioned flight track due to deep convection, or circles in which no sondes were dropped. Generally meant to be a free text field for proper explanations, this category may contain some standardized *irregularity tags* (**to be decided on**) for automatic checking, and these should be prepended to the explanatory string of the irregularity.
> - `comments`: lists custom comments such as the distance to the exact EC overpass position in the case of an `ec_overpass` segment

Reviewer: It would be good to add that `segment_id`, `start` and `end` are mandatory, while the rest is optional.
```suggestion
Mandatory components:
- `segment_id`: unique identifier of the segment, constructed as the combination of the `flight_id` and the last four digits of a hash computed from the start and end time of the segment
- `start`: start time of the segment in format `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS`, e.g. 2024-08-13 14:56:37. 
- `end`: end time of the segment in same format as start time. 
Optional components:
- `kinds`: Can be thought of as tags which label coherent characteristics of the flight segment. See a list of all tags currently in use below.
- `name`: Short (1 - 3 words) qualitative description of the segment, does not have to be unique
- `irregularities`: lists irregularities such as deviations from envisioned flight track due to deep convection, or circles in which no sondes were dropped. Generally meant to be a free text field for proper explanations, this category may contain some standardized *irregularity tags* (**to be decided on**) for automatic checking, and these should be prepended to the explanatory string of the irregularity.
- `comments`: lists custom comments such as the distance to the exact EC overpass position in the case of an `ec_overpass` segment
```

  comments: []
- kinds:
  - straight_leg
  - ec_track
  name: ec track southwards
  segment_id: HALO-20240816a_0k2e
  start: 2024-08-16 12:06:58
  end: 2024-08-16 12:51:55
  irregularities: []
  comments: []
```

**Note:** Time ranges are defined as semi-open intervals, i.e. while the start time is inside the segment, the end time is not. This allows for an unambiguous definition of exactly consecutive segments. In the case of underpass and overpass segments, the start and end times are identical.

## Definition of kinds
Kinds may or may not apply/be adopted for all platforms. For version 1 of the segmentation of HALO flights, one or more of the following kinds are assigned to each segment:

### circle:
- can be identified by a constant change of aircraft heading, lasting anywhere around 20 to 60 min (depending on circle radius), as well as a roughly constant roll angle of 1.5-3 degrees (positive or negative, depending on turning clockwise or counter-clockwise) for the standard circle of about 200km diameter. The smaller ATR circle has a larger roll angle of 3-5 degree depending on and varying with the wind speed and direction at the respective altitude.

> - in most cases associated with the launch of dropsondes, typically 12 per circle at every 30&deg; heading. In cases where the first/last dropsonde of the circle was launched before/after the roll angle and change in heading match the circle characteristics described above, the start/end time of the circle segment is taken to be the `launch_time` of the respective dropsonde minus/plus 1 sec. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- in most cases a circle is associated with the launch of dropsondes, typically 12 per circle at every 30&deg; heading. In cases where the first/last dropsonde of the circle was launched before/after the roll angle and change in heading match the circle characteristics described above, the start/end time of the circle segment is taken to be the `launch_time` of the respective dropsonde minus/plus 1 sec. 
```

> - Circle dropsondes were sometimes droped before/after the roll angle reached its circle value in which case the launch time of the sonde  marks the beginning/end of the circle period (minus/plus a few seconds, so that the sonde is included in the circle segment). 

Reviewer: This seems redundant to the statement before.
```suggestion
```

- Some circles were highly irregular due to detours around convective towers. In these cases, an irregularity note need to be added.

> ### ATR_coordination:
> - circle that was also flown by the ATR aircraft on the same day

Reviewer: The ATR did not fly a circle, but rather performed measurements within the same airmass
```suggestion
### atr_coordination:
- HALO flew several 72km radius circles in coordination with parallel (or slightly delayed) ATR measurements that aimed at sampling the same airmass. 
```

### straight_leg:
- can be identified by an approximately constant aircraft heading and a roll angle close to 0&deg; 
- short-term deviations of the roll angle can occur due to turbulence and extreme cases should be mentioned as irregularities; strong deviations my also be radar calibration maneuvers in which case they need to be listed as a separate `radar_calibration` segment.
- while segments in which the aircraft was ascending or descending are often of kind `straight_leg`, `straight_leg` segments with roughly constant altitude need to be separated from those with continuous ascent/descent.

> #### ec_track:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### ec_track:
```

- straight leg along the EarthCARE track

### ascent:
- straight leg or circle during which the altitude was constantly increased (slight altitude changes of a few meters do not count)

### descent:
- straight leg or circle during which the altitude was constantly decreased (slight altitude changes of a few meters do not count)

### radar_calibration:
- maneuver typically conducted during straight legs, where the aircraft tilts to a roll angle of first about -20&deg; and then +20&deg;.
- if conducted during a straight leg, the straight leg is split into three flight segments:
1.) `straight_leg`, 2.) `radar_calibration`, 3.) `straight_leg`.
- segments start and end at about 0&deg; roll angle.

### ec_underpass:

> - defined as the time when the EC satellite is almost exactly above HALO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- defined as the time when the EC satellite is closest to HALO
```

### pace_underpass:

> - defined as the time when the PACE satellite is almost exactly above HALO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- defined as the time when the PACE satellite is closest HALO
```

### meteor_overpass:

> - defined as the time when HALO is almost exactly above METEOR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- defined as the time when HALO flies above or passes close by METEOR
```

### bco_overpass:

> - defined as the time when HALO is almost exactly above the Barbados Cloud Observatory (BCO)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- defined as the time when HALO flies above or passes close by the Barbados Cloud Observatory (BCO)
```

### mindelo_overpass:

> - defined as the time when HALO is almost exactly above the Mindelo research station

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- defined as the time when HALO flies above or passes close by the Mindelo research station
```

> ## Workflow - general overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Workflow for HALO segmentation - general overview
```

The flight segmentation workflow broadly consists of three phases:
1. Segmentation of a flight
2. Review of the segmentation in pairs (the person who performed the segmentation + one other colleague)
3. Handover of the final flight segmentation (along with suggestions for how to improve the flight report where necessary) to the corresponding flight-PI for cross-checking.

> ## For developers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### For developers
```
